# Becoming Seventy
## Joy Harjo
Knoxville, December 27, 2016, for Marilyn Kallet's 70th birthday.
This poem was constructed to carry any memory you want to hold close.
We

arrived

when the days

grew legs of night.

Chocolates were offered.

We ate latkes for hours

to celebrate light and friends.

_We will keep going despite dark_

_or a madman in a white house dream._

Let’s talk about something else said the dog

who begs faithfully at the door of goodwill:

a biscuit will do, a voice of reason, meat sticks —

I dreamed all of this I told her, you, me, and Paris —

it was impossible to make it through the tragedy

without poetry. What are we without winds becoming words?

Becoming old children born to children born to sing us into

love. Another level of love, beyond the neighbor’s holiday light

display proclaiming goodwill to all men who have lost their way in the dark

as they tried to find the car door, the bottle hidden behind the seat, reason

to keep on going past all the times they failed at sharing love, love. It’s
weak they think —

or some romantic bullshit, a movie set propped up behind on slats, said the
wizard

of junk understanding who pretends to be the wise all-knowing dog behind a
cheap fan.

It’s in the plan for the new world straining to break through the floor of
this one, said the Angel of

All-That-You-Know-and-Forgot-and-Will-Find, as she flutters the edge of your
mind when you try to

sing the blues to the future of everything that might happen and will. All the
losses come tumbling

down, down, down at three in the morning as do all the shouldn’t-haves or
should-haves. It doesn’t matter, girl —

I’ll be here to pick you up, said Memory, in her red shoes, and the dress that
showed off brown legs. When you met

him at the age you have always loved, hair perfect with a little wave, and
that shine in your skin from believing what was

impossible was possible, you were not afraid. You stood up in love in a French
story and there fell ever

a light rain as you crossed the Seine to meet him for café in Saint-Germain-
des-Prés. You wrote a poem beneath the tender

skin from your ribs to your hip bone, in the slender then, and you are still
writing that song to convince the sweetness of every

bit of straggling moonlight, star and sunlight to become words in your mouth,
in your kiss — that kiss that will never die, you will all

ways fall in love. It doesn’t matter how old, how many days, hours, or
memories, we can fall in love over and over

again. The Seine or Tennessee or any river with a soul knows the depths
descending when it comes to seeing the sun or moon stare

back, without shame, remorse, or guilt. This is what I remember she told her
husband when they bedded down that night in the house that would begin

marriage. That house was built of twenty-four doves, rugs from India, cooking
recipes from seven generations of mothers and their sisters,

and wave upon wave of tears, and the concrete of resolution for the steps that
continue all the way to the heavens, past guardian dogs, dog

after dog to protect. They are humble earth angels, and the rowdiest, even
nasty. You try and lick yourself like that, imagine. And the Old

Woman laughed as she slipped off her cheap shoes and parked them under the bed
that lies at the center of the garden of good and evil. She’d seen it all.
Done it

more than once. Tonight, she just wanted a good sleep, and picked up the book
of poetry by her bed, which was over a journal she kept when her mother was
dying.

These words from May Sarton she kept in the fourth room of her heart, “Love,
come upon him warily and deep / For if he startle first it were as well / to
bind a fox’s

throat with a gold bell /As hold him when it is his will to leap.” And she
considered that every line of a poem was a lead line into the spirit world to
capture a

bit of memory, pieces of gold confetti, a kind of celebration. We all want to
be remembered, even memory, even the way the light came in the kitchen

window, when her mother turned up the dial on that cool mist color  of a
radio, when memory crossed the path of longing and took  mother’s arm and she
put down her apron

said, “I don’t mind if I do,” and they danced, you watching, as you began your
own cache of remembering. Already you had stored the taste of mother as milk,
father as a labor

of sweat and love, and night as a lonely boat of stars that took you into who
you were before you slid through the hips of the story. There are no words
when you cross the

gate of forbidden waters, or is it a sheer scarf of the finest silk, or is it
something else that causes you to forget. Nothing is ever forgotten says the
god of remembering

who protects the heartbeat of every little cell of knowing from the Antarctic
to the soft spot at the top of this planetary baby. Oh baby, come here, let me
tell you the story

of the party you will never forget, no matter where you go, where you are, or
where you will be when you cross the line and say, no more. No more greedy
kings, no more disappointments, no more orphans,

or thefts of souls or lands, no more killing for the sport of killing. No
more, no more, except more of the story so I will understand exactly what I am
doing here, and why, she said to the fox

guardian who took her arm to help her cross the road that was given to the
care of Natives who made sure the earth spirits were fed with songs, and the
other things they loved to eat. They like sweets, cookies, and flowers.

It was getting late and the fox guardian picked up her books as she hurried
through the streets of strife. But it wasn’t getting late. There was no late,
only a plate of tamales on the counter waiting to be

or not to be. At this age, said the fox, we are closer to the not to be, which
is the to be in the fields of sweet grasses. Wherever you are, enjoy the
evening, how the sun walks the horizon before cross

sing over to be, and we then exist under the realm of the moon. There’s where
fears slay us, in the dark of the howling mind. We all battle. Befriend them,
the moon said as a crab skittered under her skirt, her daughter in

the high chair, waiting for cereal and toast. What a girl she turned out to
be, a willow tree, a blessing to the winds, to her family. There she is
married, and we start the story all over again, said her father

in a toast to the happiness of who we are and who we are becoming as Change in
a new model sedan whips it down the freeway toward the generations that
follow, one after another in the original

lands of the Mvskoke who are still here. Nobody goes anywhere though we are
always leaving and returning. It’s a ceremony. Sunrise occurs everywhere, in
lizard time, human time, or a fern uncurling time. We

instinctually reach for light food, we digest it, make love, art or  trouble
of it. The sun crowns us at noon. The whole earth is a queen. Then there are
always goodbyes. At sunset say goodbye to hurt, to suffering, to the pain you
caused others,

or yourself. Goodbye, goodbye, to Carrie Fisher, the Star Wars phenomenon, and
George Michael, the singer. They were planets in our emotional universe. Some
of my memories are opened by the image of love on screen in an

imagined future, or broken open when the sax solo of “Careless Whisper” blows
through the communal heart. Yes, there’s a cosmic consciousness. Jung named it
but it was there long before named by Vedic and Mvskoke scientists. And, there
is

a cosmic hearteousness — for the heart is the higher mind and nothing can be
forgotten there, no ever or ever. How do I sing this so  I don’t forget? Ask
the poets. Each word is a box that can be opened or closed. Then a train of
words, phrases

garnered by music and the need for rhythm to organize chaos. Like right here,
now, in this poem is the transition phase. I remembered it while giving birth,
summer sun bearing down on the city melting asphalt but there we were, my
daughter

and I, at the door between worlds. I was happier than ever before to welcome
her, happiness was the path she chose to enter, and  I couldn’t push yet, not
yet, and then there appeared a pool of the  bluest water. We waited there for
a breath

to catch up, and then it did, and she took it that girl who was beautiful
beyond dolphin dreaming, and we made it, we did, to the other side of
suffering. This is the story our mothers tell but we couldn’t hear it in our
ears stuffed with Barbie advertising,

with our mothers’ own loathing set in place by patriarchal scripture, the
smothering rules to stop insurrection by domesticated slaves, or wives. It
hurt everybody. The fathers cannot know what they are feeling in such a
spiritual backwash. Worship

boxes set into place by the need for money and power will not beget freedom.
Only warships. For freedom, freedom, oh freedom sang the slaves, the oar
rhythm of the blues lifting up the spirits of peoples whose bodies were worn
out, or destroyed by a man’s slash,

hit of greed. This is our memory too, said America. Heredity is a field of
blood, celebration, and forgetfulness. Don’t take on more than you can carry,
said the eagle to his twin sons, fighting each other in the sky over a fox,
dangling between

them. It’s that time of the year, when we eat tamales and latkes. We light
candles, fires to make the way for a newborn child, for fresh  understanding.
Demons will try to make houses out of jealousy, anger,  pride, greed, or more
destructive material. They place them in a

part of the body that will hold them: liver, heart, knee, or brain. So, my
friend, let’s let that go, for joy, for chocolates made of ashes, mangos,
grapefruit, or chili from Oaxaca, for sparkling wine from Spain, for these
children who show up in our dreams and want to live at any cost because

we are here to feed them joy. Your soul is so finely woven the silkworms went
on strike, said the mulberry tree. We all have mulberry trees in the memory
yard. They hold the place for skinned knees earned by small braveries, cousins
you love who are gone, a father cutting a

watermelon in the summer on the porch, and a mother so in love that her heart
breaks — it will never be the same, yet all memory bends to fit. The heart has
uncountable rooms. We turn to leave here, and so will the hedgehog who makes a
home next to that porch. We become birds, poems.