# Cell
## Naomi Cohn
The blood of language moves through the word _cell_ from monk’s cell to prison
cell to biological cell. I don’t know why a Braille cell is called a cell. I
don’t know how many blood cells Louis Braille lost when the awl he was
playing with as a small child slipped and injured his eye.

Red blood cells live some hundred days before they are worn out by their
silent hustle—looping and looping, pounded through the heart’s chambered
cathedral, rushing out to the farthest reaches of the body with the good news
of oxygen, squeezing single file along capillaries, like anxious deer probing
their tracks through the woods. Rushing, silent, looping the circuits of the
body. Again, again, again. Load iron. Dump iron. Load dump squeeze hustle.

Red blood cells pushed through the capillaries that pushed through my
retinas. They broke loose to run a green swarm in the corral of my eye. But
that is history. Today cells still push through the capillaries fenced off by
my calloused fingerprint. This one that I run over the Braille cell, the
pattern of bumps.

—

A red blood cell is measured in microns. A solitary prison cell is measured in
feet. Six feet by nine feet or less. I don’t know what the unit of measure is
for how living in solitary changes a person. We know that living in a confined
space, without access to the long view or landscape, changes the eye. The eye,
for lack of practice, loses its ability to make out what lies in the distance.
I don’t have a unit of measure for what this does to the heart.

—

A Braille cell is measured in spaces in a grid—two across by three down—that
can be filled with a raised dot or bump. Different combinations of dots
represent different letters, punctuation, symbols, shorthand.

—

The oldest cell I find in the dictionary is the monastic cell, _a place for
contemplation_. From _the concealed place where wine was stored_. As in
_cellar_. I find Braille contemplative. I touch my index finger to a bumpy
piece of paper. My hand advances slowly left to right, the touch receptors in
my finger triggered by the uneven contact of paper and skin. Messages run
along nerves, finger-to-brain, brain-to-finger. Cognition sizzles. Mind
notices this feels different than the pathway of sound in ear to auditory
processing. Listening pulls me out into the world in an infinity of
directions. Touching my reading educates me on my exact location in the world,
feet in shoes, weight of foot on ground, weight of bones and flesh in chair.