# Crisis Actor
## Harmony Holiday
Ruby, please. A night shift nurse fell asleep at the wheel. The whole earth
had a fever and the heated pulse beats faster ’til everything picturesque has
her reeling. Just tryna make it real baby, like it is. He condescends.
Twitching a trio of flax seeds between the thumb and forefinger in a dirty
spiral, these are full of phytoestrogens that turn the gender    ...
generic    ...    generous. Hey, girl! Crease in her _hey_ the size of
turning. Is that mean? I live in place where it’s mean to be honest but I come
from a place where it’s generous. Freetown is hedged on a slum. The ghetto,
everybody’s vigilante. Cut to the footage of a young boy swimming in
floodwater made of mud and feces. Constructed. Like shelter, the safest
destination the excess has. You see a fugitive, I see my daughter’s future
husband, Ma quips, full sunned and sweet, a nigga who can swim, can hunt her
free. Glad silk bending his teeth into a Sunday hotel. And the kind of silt
that reachers for shatter. All the land is water. You come forth through the
cosmic slop by drowning. The sun is a gang of murders. You come through on the
new acquittal looking for chicken strips and bourbon with Netflix on in the
background and I’ll kill you myself. Back on the Las Vegas strip, the sun is a
bouquet of drones chasing promoters through a circus. Stand there and look
indignant in a bandana and stop calling the Loa out their names before they
answer. You’re on the guest list for lil yachty and one oak and it’s a
mouthpiece the boxer’s choking on when the nurse wakes up, a double suicide,
American, pie and guns and obscene convenience, proud mascots for an army with
no one left to defend