# CXIV
## Sonnet L'Abbé
I’m not sure whether it happened in Manitoba or Alberta: _go home_ , they
complained, _go back, wherever pakis or niggers come from_. Was  I seven years
old? Was I five? The day was cloudy; there was wind, and a sidewalk underfoot
— a path of cement on which we kids marched. In whose place was I a guest, if
home wasn’t this flat territory we were on? The hard sidewalk under my shoes,
their sense of here.  I walked home alone — I say “home” — I went where my
parents paid rent, right? Our house wasn’t ours? Overhead, the sky spread out;
the sky’s country was itself. We had moved from Ontario, but my gut got that
they didn’t mean there. Immigrants, all of us, we’d chorused in assembly — the
more immigrants, the kindlier the country, the folksier the mosaic. First the
English and the French, then Western Europeans and the Ukrainians, I guessed,
then Chinese and Indians, then the Guyanese and other such Commonwealth
stragglers? Eventually we’d bring into “us,” Canadians, a panoply of the human
race — so my sweet young self, in Trudeau’s aftermania, believed. Those
children’s hate had a kind of guilelessness, however, that conveyed my
abjection straight from their Canadian parents’ hearts. I was foreign to clear
distinctions between master and savage — to fantasies of homesteaders who, by
subjecting trees to their saws, had “mixed their labor” with “unowned” lands.
Homesteaders, they called themselves, by principle: “home” was theirs, because
they were first to fence it. As if we still were at war with whatever made
entreaty against their fencing, my existence existing too near threatened. My
very being entreated something before I ever opened my mouth. _Get lost!_ Here
kingly kids drink from institution’s cup. Something older than English yea
well knows what with his guts he must disagree. Something français dit bon,
histoire-là, je parle  au-dessus du poète: domination, Dominion, domicile,
home. I protested: one of my parents is here’s occupying family! Don’t blacken
me! Please see my colonists’ blood, inside! They practiced the  policing of
reserve on the surface of my brown skin. They practiced homing in on enemy.
The clouds above, the sky above, witnessed. The land underfoot said, here was
here first. We thought about  beginnings.