# Dear Babylon,
## Harmony Holiday
What will you be like when the daylight comes? I’m glad you’re Diana Ross,
today. What is she scraping off her face? Two strobing flashlights at the apex
of the cheekbones, one on the tip of the nose. I’m so glad you’re Dorothy.
Nineties depression chic nirvana flannel and hobo overalls accented with
stilettos are back falling through lawn chairs as Rodney King. Your dog ran
away in the night and I’m celebrating. Caleb caught a case and I’m running
through the streets like there’s a bouquet of swords in one fist and balloons
in the other, dissembling my distress. In high school we read Camus’s _Rebel_
but stayed up till midnight to catch the second airing of Jerry Springer on
three way. I mostly remember the brawls and such earnest DNA testing, such
universal are you my daddy tales. We’d stay on the phone and wait for the
results. The audience hated reconciliation and everyone was someone’s mom
outrunning the weightless claymation noonnight. Praying for patient doom.
Tasting like Cool Ranch Doritos and a room of one’s own. Sullen minstrel
cuddling the spotlight won’t you put down your phone and tell me what’s really
the matter. Why won’t they call security before she hurls another chair. Their
spectacle protects them from sorrow and all sorts of water rots in Chicago and
no one seems outraged when the mother’s boyfriend is her daughter’s babyfather
no one turns down the complimentary coffee and hamburgers     or stabs him in
the groin.     By default, by heroic shamelessness.     Did you spend at least
eight and a half minutes in daylight.     Did you radiate like starch in the
Paleolithic age, get so thin it aches. Is the rebel wanted dead or alive? I
had asked Diana. She had gone into hiding by then.