# Do you find it hard to live?
## Harmony Holiday
I mean to really _live_? Kick a spook in the stomach and commit to yourself
and not be committed. Sit through another because I got it like that yoga
class where a Coldplay soundtrack competes with the upbeat white chick
reminding you to be present, to thank yourself for making it to your mat.
Point to any place on the map and blow it up. Blow up spots. Why you gotta
blow up spots? I loved Lebanon, never quite made it. I spit out the sudden ash
with Don Cherry in Marrakech. I lifted one chiseled leg so high over my head
Magic City had called and the ATL was ready to blow me up and I said, _please.
Do I do_. _What you do._ Sing with me. Another shooter made it first and the
ACLU was a petty bunch of pseudo-saviors but they blew up spots that one day.
So many sad stories you start laughing at the wrong time and you thought yours
was one ’til the time working at Ailey with the girl whose mom was killed by
her very own daddy in front of the just-say-no rainbow she drew him in class.
She wears heavy aquamarine eyeshadow and closes the gap between feeling and
being. I’m glad you’re Dorothy Dandridge. Ban on that word, daddy. Banksy sees
the zoo in you and cages hisself in bluer notes. I go wild and will, and will.
Myth is a special kind of killer and I love her atonal smile. Without her we’d
all go bye-bye, point to a place in the rap and make it a black hole, let it
suck us in hug the cuckolded sucker emcees and let it hold us against our
certain demolition. Without her you would find it hard to live. All the
opiates would shrivel into sickle cell and all the blood running through the
streets would keep on believing in bodies —  what obsolete machines, the only
ones worth saving. Thank yourself for making it     for being present for the
cold ache you sit with and rock into situations     for the way you exploded
in nuclear winter and thought you had dreamed it     and made a new world bent
as your denial     reached forth to caress it all and it shocked your
fingertips     this is the bravest numbness