# From "Fictive ..."
## Aja Couchois Duncan
try again. so the lesson goes. less a foot. an arm. an eye. easier to lose one
of two, to split a pair, to untwine.

other injuries are more difficult. a broken septum, an amputated tongue.
consider the spleen. once ruptured the body is maligned, capillaries flooded
with something other than. the greeks considered the spleen the organ of
compassion, but the french recognized melancholy, the mottled flesh, the ache
of. it is not, after all, the heart but the spleen that is the source of our
greatest suffering. the heart is that which we cannot live without. it must be
whole, intact. if our heart breaks, truly breaks, it must be replaced. but the
spleen, that abalone nestled behind, within, can be carved down to a sliver of
itself. it can live on somehow, a mere fragment of.

•


every day dawn finds herself naked and wonders if she has not in fact lost
herself entirely in the night, her clothes, precepts, selfhood. what comes of
a preposition, of love, some penetrated interiority. in this new and sudden
opening, there is the fragile pink of sky, the lip of wind. dawn is not alone
in her discomfort. the sun too is heavy with the previous day’s misfortunes.
neither can bear the tentative movement of the other. she would withdraw
safely into the darkness but sun is thick limbed, blocking the door. dawn
walks backward toward the window, her legs shimmering with light. she will
fall — she always does — upward, into the buoyancy of it. there will be
witnesses. it does not matter who. for dawn there is only the swarm of light,
the heady rush of it. everything else is incidental.

•


there is a story we tell. a story about suffering. not because we are only
suffering, but because that is the story we have been taught to tell. take a
beetle for instance. it talks of nothing other than the leaf it chews. the
angularity of it. the soft brush underneath. there are many beetles. far more
than there are humans. somehow our voices always drown them out. take crows
for instance. they have been known to fish. not with their beaks but with
fiberglass poles left idle by drunken fishermen. or maybe they are just
sleeping. either way the crow speaks only of fish. the cold flesh. the fragile
meat. in the story i tell myself there are often buffalo. not because they are
prolific, but because they occupy the expanse of my memory, its continent. the
buffalo are only a metaphor. snow is also a metaphor. bodies blanketed in
white. freezing. we are all rigid with it. the story. tell something
different. something about the rain. the sound of it. like walking skyward.
away from one’s origins. what has been culled from one atmosphere falling
gently into another.

•


energy is an attribute of objects. we often mistake the boulder for something
other than. he is drawn to the laboratory dome, a concrete formation sitting
cross-legged on the mountainside. as if protesting movement. as if unmovable.
he finds breathing difficult, the opening and closing. he avoids people who
demand such things. there are those who objected to nuclear fission, to
anything being split in two. inside the concrete building, he finds the guts
of the machine, metal tentacles wrapping around the bulbous head of an
octopus. he stations himself at the tentacle’s tip and measures the distance
electrons travel when driven from their source. a hundred years ago scientists
believed that fission could split the world into sequences of light. they were
right. he scatters particles, drives elements far from their nucleus. to
create such structural injury. we continue to.