# ["Hour in which I consider hydrangea"]
## Simone White
Hour in which I consider hydrangea, a salt or sand plant, varietal, the
question of varietals, the diet of every mother I know, 5 pounds feels like
20, I have lost … I have lost, yes, a sense of my own possible beauty, grown
external, I externalize beauty. Beauty occurs on the surface of plants; the
sun darkens the skin of my child, he is so small, he is beautiful (I can see;
it is obvious) and everything about him is beautiful. Because he is small the
bite of some insect, its venom makes his hand swell. He appears to feel
nothing. He smashes his skull against the floor. He screams. I hold him in my
lap on the kitchen floor in front of an open freezer, pressing a pack of
frozen clay against his forehead. He likes the cold. I see; it is so obvious.
Hydrangea. When I move, when I walk pushing my child’s stroller (it is both
walking and pushing or hauling, sometimes, also, lifting; it is having another
body, an adjunct body composed of errand and weight and tenderness and no
small amount of power), I imagine I can feel this small amount of weight, this
5 pounds like 20, interfering with the twitch of every muscle in my body. As
an object, a mother is confusing, a middle-aged mother with little spare
flesh, I feel every inch of major muscle pulling against gravity and against
the weight of my child, now sleeping. This is the hour for thinking hydrangea.
Let no man look at me. I stop to brush the drowsy child’s little eye. His
face. He barely considers his mother. I am all around him. Why should he
consider what is all around him? Perhaps what is missing is a subtle power of
differentiation. I am in, therefore, a time of mass apprehensions.