# I Move through London Like a Hotep
## Raymond Antrobus
_What you need will come to you at the right time_ says the tarot card I
overturned at my friend Nathalie’s house one evening. I was wondering if she
said something worth hearing, _What?_ I’m looking at her face, trying to read
it, not a clue what she said but I’ll just say _yeah_ and hope. Me, Tabitha,
and her aunt are waffling in Waffle House by the Mississippi River. Tabitha’s
aunt is all mumble. She either said _Do you want a pancake?_ or _You look
melancholic_. The less I hear the bigger the swamp, so I smile and nod while
my head becomes a faint foghorn, a lost river. Why wasn’t I asking her to
microphone? When you tell someone you read lips you become a mysterious
captain. You watch their brains navigate channels with BSL interpreters in the
corner of night TV. Sometimes it’s hard to get back the smooth sailing and you
go down with the whole conversation. I’m a haze of broken jars, a purple
bucket and only I know there’s a hole in it. On Twitter @justnoxy tweets _I
can’t watch_ _TV_ _/ movies / without subtitles. It’s just too hard to follow.
I’m just sitting there pretending and it’s just not worth it._ I tweet back
_you not being able to follow is not your failure._ It’s weird, giving the
advice you need to someone else, weird as thinking my American friend said _I
move through London like a Hotep_ when she actually said _I’m used to London
life with no sales tax_. Deanna (my friend who owns crystals and mentions the
existence of multiple moons) says I should write about my mishearings, she
thinks it’ll make a good book for her bathroom. I am still afraid I have grown
up missing too much information. I think about that episode of _The Twilight
Zone_ where an old man walks around the city bar selling bric-a-brac from his
suitcase, knowing what people need — scissors, a leaky pen, a bus ticket,
combs. In the scene, music is playing loud, meaning if I were in that bar I
would miss the mysticism while the old man’s miracles make the barman say
_WOAH, this guy is from another planet!_