# J is for Jarasandha
## Divya Victor
There once lived a great king whose twin wives could bear him no children. A
wandering sage saw the king’s grief and offered him a magical mango. She who
ate the mango would be with child. As he had two wives, the king cut the mango
into two perfect halves and offered one half to each wife. After nine months,
each wife gave birth to one lifeless half. Horrified, the king ordered these
clots of flesh to be left in the forest. A wandering demon found the two
lifeless halves and cupped one in each palm. When she brought them together,
the two halves fused and a whole child was made in front of her eyes—the demon
named the child Jarasandha.

Years passed by and this child grew to be an intimidating and invincible
warrior. In a fight with Bhim, an equally invincible warrior, Jarasandha was
ripped in half by his enemy. But, each time he was ripped apart, his halves
found a way to meet up and become whole. Krishna, who witnessed how
Jarasandha’s flesh found its own way back to flesh, motioned to his own cousin
with his fingers: _toss the halves of his body in opposite directions_ , he
suggested.

So, when Bhim ripped Jarasandha apart once again, he swung his left half to
the right side of the arena and his right half to the left. And his body found
no way to return to itself.

In the Toronto airport, where I’ve arrived for a conference, I watch an older
Punjabi lady—made to sit in a wheelchair behind two lines of customs
officials, a security guard, a translator, and a service-staff member—scream
that her son is outside the airport may she please just go tell him she is
here she is here she is here please. I stand there holding her hand, my own
luggage reluctantly traveling in loops on the belt. Beta—child— she says to
me: please tell them my son is here and I am here what is the problem let me
go let me go to him.