# Kora in Hell: Improvisations XI﻿V
## William Carlos Williams
XIV

1

     The brutal Lord of All will rip us from each other—leave the one to
suffer here alone. No need belief in god or hell to postulate that much. The
dance: hands touching, leaves touching—eyes looking, clouds rising—lips
touching, cheeks touching, arm about . . . Sleep. Heavy head, heavy arm, heavy
dream—: Of Ymir’﻿﻿s flesh the earth was made and of his thoughts were all the
gloomy clouds created. Oya!

________________

 _Out of bitterness itself the clear wine of the imagination will be pressed
and the dance prosper thereby._

2

     To you! whoever you are, wherever you are! (But I know where you are!)
There’﻿﻿s Dü﻿rer’﻿﻿s “Nemesis” naked on her sphere over the little town by the
river—except she’﻿﻿s too old. There’﻿﻿﻿s a dancing burgess by Tenier and
Villon’﻿﻿﻿s _maitresse_ —after he’﻿﻿﻿d gone bald and was skin pocked and
toothless: she that had him ducked in the sewage drain. Then there’﻿﻿﻿s that
miller’﻿﻿﻿s daughter of “buttocks broad and breastes high.” Something of
Nietzsche, something of the good Samaritan, something of the devil
himself,—can cut a caper of a fashion, my fashion! Hey you, the dance! Squat.
leap. Hips to the left. Chin—ha!—sideways! Stand up, stand up _ma bonne!_
you’﻿﻿﻿ll break my backbone. So again!—and so forth till we’﻿﻿﻿re sweat
soaked.

________________

 _Some fools once were listening to a poet reading his_ _poem. It so happened
that the words of the thing spoke of_ _gross matters of the everyday world
such as are never_ _much hidden from a quick eye. Out of these semblances,_
_and borrowing certain members from fitting masterpieces_ _of antiquity, the
poet began piping up his music, simple_ _fellow, thinking to please his
listeners. But they getting_ _the whole matter sadly muddled in their minds
made such_ _a confused business of listening that not only were they_ _not
pleased at the poet﻿’﻿s exertions but no sooner had he_ _done than they burst
out against him with violent impre_ _cations._

3

     It’﻿s all one. Richard worked years to conquer the descending cadence,
idiotic sentimentalist. Ha, for happiness! This tore the dress in ribbons from
her maid’﻿﻿s back and not spared the nails either; wild anger spit from her
pinched eyes! This is the better part. Or a child under a table to be dragged
out coughing and biting, eyes glittering evilly. I’﻿﻿ll have it my way!
Nothing is any pleasure but misery and brokenness. THIS is the only up-
cadence. This is where the secret rolls over and opens its eyes. Bitter words
spoken to a child ripple in morning light! Boredom from a bedroom doorway
thrills with anticipation! The complaints of an old man dying piecemeal are
starling chirrups. Coughs go singing on springtime paths across a field;
corruption picks strawberries and slow warping of the mind, blacking the
deadly walls—counted and recounted—rolls in the grass and shouts ecstatically.
All is solved! The moaning and dull sobbing of infants sets blood tingling and
eyes ablaze to listen. Speed sings in the heels at long nights tossing on
coarse sheets with bruning sockets staring into the black. Dance! Sing! Coil
and uncoil! Whip yourselves about! Shout the deliverance! An old woman has
infected her blossomy grand-daughter with a blood illness that every two weeks
drives the mother into hidden songs of agony, the pad-footed mirage of
creeping death for music. The face muscles keep pace. Then a darting about the
compass in a tarantelle that wears flesh from bones. Here is dancing! The mind
in tatters. And so the music wistfully takes the lead. _Ay de m_ _í_ ﻿, Juana
la Loca, reina de Espa _ñ_ ﻿a, esa est _á_ ﻿ tu _canta, reina m_ __ _í_ ﻿a!﻿