# Les Saltimbanques
## Matthew Sweeney
I was walking from the Louvre to Place Saint-Michel along the Seine when I
noticed a crowd gathered under a large linden tree. As I approached I thought
how much I’d liked to walk down Unter den Linden when I’d lived in Berlin, and
now I saw again how attractive the light green seeds of the linden tree were
against the darker green of the leaves. I was also agog to see what had caused
the crowd to gather.
As I neared I heard a mother say to her little boy, “Regardez, Sébastien, les
saltimbanques.”
_Saltimbanques_? This was a new word to me. I had a quick look on my iPhone
and came up with the translation “mountebank.”  I pushed my way as politely as
possible through the crowd until I had a good view. It was a family of street
performers. They had improvised a small stage on the wide pavement, and a
father, mother, and ten-year-old or so boy were up there. The man was dressed
in a striking yellow and blue outfit with white leggings and black shoes, and
was banging a little drum rhythmically while the boy in a checked black-and-
white jumpsuit capered about, playing thumb rolls on a tambourine, with a
black-and-white dog dancing in perfect step alongside him. The woman dressed
all in white sat on a stool playing quick dance music on a red tin whistle. On
her head was a white floppy hat, sitting on which was a snowy owl who
periodically flew in a circle over the heads of the crowd, coming back to land
on the white hat. It was a scene worthy of being painted by the young Picasso,
or the old Chagall. Or maybe by Gustave Doré. The boy on stage didn’t look in
the best of health, but I hoped I was wrong. The effect of the whole
performance was strange and utterly charming. And the little troupe seemed to
have emerged from another era — from that of Baudelaire, even.
I was puzzled by the translation offered by my iPhone, however.  What I
understood by the English word “mountebank” (which seemed very archaic) was
either a person who sold quack medicines in public places, or a charlatan.
These performers were no fakes. And yet, the English word, like the French,
seemed to suggest the jumping up onto a stage. I’d have to revisit my
Shakespeare plays — I seemed to remember that he’d liked using that word.
When the white hat came round I put a €20 note into it, took a quick
photograph of _les saltimbanques_ and made my way to the nearest metro. I was
almost surprised to see cars and motorbikes clogging the road.