# Life Form
## Aase Berg
Will haul this gelatinous body, will lash forward this non-form, will push
this organism of gas through the gray regions.

A sour wind tears through the thin white hair. A wind of vinegar and henbane
tears in the rustling, discarded bird-shells that were abandoned empty and
fragile when the throbbing bird-boils moved on toward so-called life. Now I
see the cunning needle-trees sling these clumps of heavy pouch-flesh back and
forth between them: small feather-birds “fly” above my heads.

I haul myself, I haul myself, I haul my dragging structure along the river
furrow’s muddy, sloppily overlapping slopes. I am so bitter, so wet, so the
mouth smears the inside with the sweetness of the chewed-up blood-chisel. Out
of this blood I am going to suck my nourishment for some time.

I haul, I urge my dissolved substance, slowly forward across the metal of calm
stones, the hovering thread-glue’s suction toward a point in the distant
middle of the perspective. Where the river’s banks will meet and like the
thinnest needle of silver of liquid will drill its dark tunnel-water straight
into the heart of the dying image, this moistly broken-up surface of paper to
which we cling.

I haul I haul I touch myself, touch the skin-rind with chafed-up viscous
fingers. Little mermaid from ocean foam molded–I haul my long veils, layers of
elastic cartilage, of slippery, shimmering membranes, chlorophyll. The gills
shudder and glow deep down in this chasm of tissue–constantly rustling,
squeaking, gasping for air. This whirling, howling, desperate lack of oxygen;
the scream–if it had had enough oxygen to scream and a mouth with which to
scream–the scream to swallow the entire lung full of clear wind.

Lizards play, glitter green, blue, and red between the skin membranes of the
body dress. Where does this mass end? I search inward through strata to find
the core of my plasma wet from juices, to find the core of body-flesh despite
the outer, surrounding flesh, the naked body’s stable surface, a kind of human
here inside the bluing, plant-becoming. Something to hold on to behind the
spread of the sickness of mud, fermentation. But there is nothing to grasp
beneath this mantle of slippery webbed skin, burst through by a pounding net
of veins.

I now lick my tongue against the outer claws of the fingers to tear life into
the ions, to make sores bitter in the tongue’s blue ventricles. A kind of pain
therefore radiates against the inner glands, a faint spasm of cheers before
this, the nervous system’s last chance to communicate with the dying I. The
mists smart, shimmer, the lumps of blue cobalt from the mustard gas corrode
through the otherwise red shroud-clouds that drag their bellies against the
river’s surface. In one of the skin-folds between the pockets of the genital
dress, lizards gather in heaps of glimmering scales.

But time runs on time and starvation and the weakness carries me in across the
gray regions. And the soul’s dark night will slowly be lowered through me.
That is why I now slowly fold myself like a muscle against the wet clay to
press the flesh against the sleep-gland’s mouths. I will sleep now in my bird
body in the down, and a bitter star will radiate eternally above the glowing
face’s watercourse.