# Locate
## Ken Chen
If all the dead exist in the underworld, does the underworld occur outside of
time, what does that mean for your father, through what magic will you locate
your father who has only just arrived, has always only just departed, only
just deported, did you don a suit and loiter on the highway your hands
gripping a giant gilt-framed photograph of him and what questions did you
interview at all who passed those vampires and angels you encountered, can you
state for the record the moan you heard the ghosts emit across the nation-
state,,, wuaahh buu,,, did you perform three miracles for a virile hag a witch
with universes for eyes and did you request in barter a single boon his
location or did you unlock his location using a skeleton, are we all a line
assembled from white keys of death and is this song the sonata we hear when we
press those keys, was your tool to search for him a wishbone, did you slice
the wishbone from the breast of a monstrous old god, who was the god, what was
his username, was it one of the ghost-giants you fled from terrified that he
may have glimpsed even a shred of you, was it the famished god who grabs small
ghosts to its mouth and slurps down their marrow, was it a devourer whose
fingerprints leak out red tears in hysterical shame, was it Francisco Pizarro,
was it King Leopold, did you see Joe Arpaio levitating each leg borne aloft by
flying police cars, did you see Winston Churchill that infant-faced faminist
turning loose new Emergencies, was it Andrew Jackson mounting a scorpion
across that moist trail this pilgrimage for creating new ghosts, did the
ghosts cry out wwuu wah,,,,,,,,, how did you kill the god, is revolutionary
politics the name for deicide,, a wa wa,,,, is the translation for that moan
“god grief!” did you slay the god with smallpox or pistols, hemlock or Maxim,
London debt or land grants or fantasies or plague blankets or kryptonite, was
it patricide, did you pry your fingers into his rib cage, did you hold the
bone’s moist handles up into the sky and poke that plump cloud with your
dowsing rod, did the stick sniff out your father from this city of ghosts
until this wet rod twitched, until the witching stick tugged you through
hell’s alleyways, until you arrived here at this modest house, what category
of building is the house that contains your father, until you found a prison,
until you found a shadowless space where he waited underneath a star, is death
the story of until, is death the story you came to untell, did the light emit
a silence like hssssssshs, this light the star wept—was it a message from the
past strewn across black heaven, an emergency beacon from a plague universe
calling help help from masters and money, what sound do you hear arrayed
against you (here the ghost chorus leaps and screams keke keke!), did the star
halt above that house like a police chopper spotlight, basking its blue heat
on your skin, was this when the star’s strange beams obliterated your shadow,
did you cry no please my shadow is all I have here, did you say without my
shadow I am a ghost, without my shadow I have no history, how did you feel
when the star cried and wailed down its weep-light in fragile pink lineaments,
did you see the star throned above where your father may be waiting, is your
father the king who sleeps in a cave beneath the city or does his life
continue in this mute house, is he washing the dishes as we speak, is he
talking on the phone in that loud way of his, is he watching a K-Drama while
eating 牛 肉 麵, did he clip the soup’s recipe from that most authentic of
sources _Gourmet_ magazine, had you bought him the subscription for his
birthday and was his reply to you months later, “Fine, these French can cook
but take away butter and they don’t know how to do anything,” ( hahahahaha say
the ghosts) was that many years ago now in fact probably a decade, did you
just glance down at your wristwatch to show how many days are left in your
very own life, do the manic watch hands ratchet around like helicopter blades
chuh chuh chuh, were you given this watch from your future self that renegade
timelord, do you have the time, is time something one can possess or does it
soar away from us on outspread wings, but doesn’t Dōgen say that time does not
fly since it does not exist outside of us, is it impossible to exist outside
the underworld, did you open the front door to the house and see the living
room from your childhood, the white Naugahyde couch preserving the dark halo
that he cast when he dozed off during his hair dye, the cubic light of a TV
luminous solely from VHF, and framed by the window: a blue Honda, car of his
youth!,,, these nostalgic recreations do they make you wonder if you had
somehow time traveled to a coordinate outside of the underworld, traveled to
the past, or would it be more accurate to say that we are already inside the
underworld, that the apocalypse is not a spectacle but what elapses as we
speak, what does it mean to speak,, ha ha blah blah blah,,,, did you tour the
house of memory saying nothing, did you find the doors to each room shut, all
handles locked, is this how your waking brain prohibits all fantasies, is it
true that they have outlawed dreams, who is they, did you come to your bedroom
door and open your wallet to take out your key, did you see on a dollar the
face of an evil god, did Andrew Jackson wink at you from the currency and bare
his fangs hsss sa sa,,,,,,, was this when the five dollar bill singed you, did
the sign of the apocalyptic populist ignite and burn out the grooves from your
fingerprints, how loud did you holler shocked, did your wallet keep falling
into the floor and never stop, did the floor wobble like a trampoline, did a
menacing voice laugh and say on god’s intercom here is your shadow catch, did
you fall through the hole in the carpet, did you land in one of the old sewers
and in the distance see someone sleeping on a stone slab, was it a body curled
to the side uncovered by any blanket, did you talk on the phone with the woman
from the ambulance, was it true that your sister and your stepmother saw his
body covered only with a sheet, did the woman tell you what she had seen and
do you remember telling her “You have a terrible job—you must tell everyone
that the one they love has died,” did you recognize her when you entered this
place and saw the Recording Angel, is the occupation of that archivist of
prayers: writer, did the sleeping figure roll back as though on an airport
conveyer, do the walls of the cave inch closer to strangle you, is the
underworld a prison since those who enter it have no right to return, who will
rescue you, who will rescue you now that you have lathered yourself with cave,
is it true that you have forgotten how to breathe, did you aspire to be as
breathless as the ghosts who populate this place or did you just have a bad
day, would you like to stop, would you like to stop and catch your breath huh
huhh huh, did you simultaneously call your expression narcissism and your
restraint self-loathing, doubly self-damning, have you been given permission
to forgive yourself, shall you ask the mirror Uncle what ails thee, what about
your dowsing rod, will you wish for water, wish for air, witch for heir, did
you tap your bone wand to the gray rocks repressing you, did the earth and its
baroque caverns transpire into the simple night about you, did you look down
through the wind from a ship sailing dark heights, did you find the ship’s
steadiness strange given that nothing supported you above sky and city, well
is the air nothing, was it the Maya who said that soul was simply breath, is
the soul nothing, what if you crept into the airship’s spacious caverns and
saw not helium but a palace of flowers, what if the entire vessel had been
borne up by the exhalations of flowers their breath tasting sweet into the
air, what if this was the world, what if you lived on a planet that had grown
itself from the souls of flowers, did you once believe that grief was the
philosopher’s stone whose touch silenced all spacetime into dark matter, on
Sunday did you meet a man at the market who had returned to Haiti the day
before the earthquake, did he tell you what that taught him, was the lesson to
quit his job and love his daughter and begin afresh, did he remind you that
you imagine the world for your child, is the poet what we name the vocation of
love and freedom, on that first summer day in March did your child’s
grandparents text you Christos Anesti, did you sit yourself down in the
airship’s aisles unsuspended by clouds and float in the silver air, buoyed by
nothing so magical as resurrection, did you take a deep breath and accept an
in-flight complimentary beverage, did you gaze out the window at the spill of
stars and think no not stars, the lights of the city, each one lit by a soul
below?