# M is for Michael Jackson and Malcolm X
## Divya Victor
In the epilogue to _The Autobiography of Malcolm X_ , Alex Haley recounts
meeting a pensive Malcolm at the Kennedy airport, watching newly immigrated
children “romping and playing” in their sudden home. “By tomorrow night,”
Malcolm says to Alex, “they’ll know how to say their first English word—
_nigger._ ”

Before cable television arrived in India, America was a white nation. I
imagined New England snows dusting California and Miami’s beaches stretched
across Appalachia. America was a papier-mâché parody patched together by a
cheaply hired prop maker. Geographic accuracy was sacrificed to the
interpersonal dramas of Betty and Veronica, and the American banquet was
limited to the malted and fried offerings in Pop’s Chock’lit Shoppe, where the
Riverdale gang solved the real geopolitical problems of how to get Reggie off
Moose’s back with the help of Archie’s fumbling charms. Here, class warfare
came with a side of fries. There were rumors of distant family members
“settling” in “North Dakota” or “Oklahoma”—names that put themselves together
like Lego castles: hard-edged and jutting out with an abrupt L or a
particularly pokey K.

Blackness was just a rumor too. Blackness flickered in the background of
photographs they sent back from these mysterious locations: here’s an uncle
waving at us from a glittering Times Square (Los Angeles); here’s an aunt
waving at us mid-way through the soft-focus neon breakfasts with Aunt Jemima’s
maple syrup (made from maple leaves); here’s a nephew waving at us next to the
poster of a red and white Michael Jordan in a quilted bedroom, his rotund
brown body snuggled in tie-dye and tucked into tartan flannel sheets.
Blackness was a rumor, that is, until Michael Jackson’s _Bad_ ripped into our
consciousness and suddenly, knobby-kneed pre-teens found a way to make stringy
curls with coconut oil stolen from their mothers’ kitchens and started
moonwalking backwards into my Social Studies classrooms, all snappy crotch and
jaunty limbs. We girls rolled our eyes but we kept on watching.

It wasn’t long before Jackson’s unsparing gaze, draped in slick black leather,
began replacing the glowing pastel Ganeshes and Saraswatis hanging above study
desks. But replacing an elephantine god’s soft paunch with lean, mean
celebrity did not save us from our own ignorance of how blackness and
brownness were connected through a struggle for economic self-realization and
human rights. While kids in Chennai were rehearsing Michael Peters’ signature
choreography for “Thriller” and pretending to be zombies—little exemplary
half-dead spectacles—Union Carbide was industriously shirking responsibility
for the Bhopal Tragedy, which choked thousands of Indians to death, and black
mortality was spiking in violent, homicidal protest of the US DEA’s drug buys
and cocaine busts.

In other words, Tamilians blinked away Michael Jackson’s blackness. We kept
the heat and thunder of his fat synth bass, which found its way into
Ilayaraaja’s electric disco in films of the late 1980s like _Vetri Vizha_ and
_Agni Natchathiram_. We kept the ebullient automation of his moves, which
became a muscular theme in Prabhu Deva’s blend of baggy breakdance and
whimsical terukoothu folk dancing in the 1990s. But we forgot his blackness.
In time, the lightning of his presence was replaced by the grey hum of CNN,
Cops, Law  & Order, and the dull horror of handcuffs on dark wrists. Posters
yellowed, cassettes spooled out, and my moonwalking classmates found their
scientific calculators and study guides again.

But the rumors of racial difference in George Bush Sr.’s America continued to
bloom and wilt in morose cycles in my childhood homes into the 1990s. In damp
clusters, it grew like moss under rocks. Rootless, it stretched its stringy
arms and held us by the ankles; it grew like mold between bathroom tiles; it
spun itself fine and strong, webbing into corners where our brooms couldn’t
reach. In time, the mossy rocks lined our after-dinner walks past the hibiscus
bushes. In time, a grandmother slipped on the bathroom tiles and stayed in
bed, fed conjee by a fatherless girl brought in from the village and the moss
grew between her toes and drew her into the earth where they buried the
nameless pets and tossed the chicken feathers. In time, the spiders hung so
low they fell into pickle jars every time a child fished for a gooseberry or a
slice of stony green mango from the brine. And from this brine, in time, we
learned to believe that it existed. And as Tamilian families began drifting
from the flashy monsoons of India to the June gloom of the California bay or
to the sharp wet summers of the Keys, they carried the damp and stench in
suitcases and buried it in hushed conversations. They made a poultice of moss
and spider web and lodged it in the prayer books, hung it around the
children’s necks like a talisman, and they said— _as long as she doesn’t marry
a black man_.