# Overheard in the Herd
## Jorie Graham
_You have to make sure you have skin in the game_ was one of the rules they
yelled out near the end. Also one must _have hope_. Also _watch the clock, the
clock is_
 _running out_. Out of what. I had hoped to escape. To form one lucid
unassailable
thought. About what? It did not matter _about what_. It just needs to be, to
be

shapely and true. Let me tell you. To feel a thought one came up with one’s
self.
Out of one’s _interiority_. There. That’s the whole story. If humanity. If to
hang on claw
back what to call it. However atrophied. Not _not-living_. Yes horribly close-
quartered. However much we missed the bus. However much we should have

been there while it lasted. Hear us: it lasted. Even here off the bus its
lastingness
keeps blossoming  & spooling onward. Yes _it’s a game it’s always just a
game_. The wind is
hissing this all afternoon. But even it, raspy and weakening, plunders this
space that it
might find some emptiness. _From mind_. Lean in  & you’ll hear plenitude.
Listen it’s trying

to make a void again. In which to hear itself. It’s too alone. Everything
wants em-
bodiment. But there’s this noise now it’s replacing everything. This humming
of agreement
fast-track skipped-step information yes yes yes yes lost hope lost will—dear
dis-
embodiment, here is an old wind, watch it orchestrate event, I raise my hand
to find

my face again, I know I am supposed to think I’m whole, there is no holiness
in me,
can I begin again, I’d like to try to get this right, we might if gotten right
go
on, whom am I speaking to, whom, I’ll pick up the acid the wrappers the 3D
glasses, I’ll
gather up the spotless tools printers magnifiers, the place is wired for sound
I’ll cut

the wires, I’ll drag the cursors off, I’ll sweep it clean, they’ve taught me
to, I think this way
 _because I am human_ , that’s my secret occupation, I am unusually common, I
can get it
right if you just tell me, we have a shot, whom am I speaking to, why is that
laughter
seeping-out nonstop from the invisible, from hospice hospital embassy
cathedral—

oh ghost institutions—why must you hover here—spy here—before me always though
in-
visible. Or is it invincible. I can’t make out the words being said. Or is it
sent. In my
direction. I’ll wait for an answer. I have indeed nothing better to do. I have
nothing
actually at all to do. We cannot remember having that—a thing _to do_. To _be
needed_

what was that like. To figure, discover, uncover, recover. To make bring think
shape.
To fold, to crease prepare serve-up. To imagine. To buy hold name sell. To
shape. To
order. This haunts us now. To make a thing for another. For another’s use. To
fashion,
to offer, to bring, hide, make. To serve. Oh to serve.... My new humanity is
now relieved of

duty. My soul has its alarm turned off. No my soul has this knot in its
throat—or is it a
gag—pacified, petrified, up all night counting silently toward infinity.
Losing its
place. How many of us are left. What else could happen. Has it all already
happened.
Who is they. That autocorrected to _thy_. Why. No matter what I say it fixes
it. It’s fixed.