# Perihelion: A History of Touch
## Franny Choi
wolf moon

No moon in sight, so I howled at the exit sign instead. Red runes, electric.
Telling an old story of escape, of wind, a wide cold. A distant car alarm.
Otherwise: the dark, and our bodies, two strange women trying to touch each
other. Breathing strange. Moving toward or away from each other as the red
ghost in the sky opened, called us gone, showed us the door to another world.
Otherwise, the dark, and our mouths, tearing at what bones we could find.
Grinning and hungry for something — something we couldn’t, with all our words,
name.


snow moon

The magic where the streetlights turn the snow pink lasts only for the first
night, the same way, maybe, a blanket loses track of its scent when it’s been
touched by too many hands, or the way a body grays when too many feet have
dragged their cigarettes and complaints through it. But for that one first
night, everything cold- flecked and whispering was ours, the pink light ours,
sent from some other world so we could, for a night, feel untouched. So we
could feel like sugar—crumbling, and perfect for it.


worm moon

Like any girl, I pulled myself into shreds to test the rumor that something
with blood like mine could be halved and still whole. And what did I learn? I
buried myself all over the garden, but the pieces only sprouted into new
riddles: squid leg, spaghetti squash, a jerking thumb. Their names still
sounded like mine; everyone in the same dress, chewing dirt to avoid each
others’ eyes. I lay down next to the one beneath the porch, hiding among the
oyster shells. _Don’t cry_ , I said, but she cried anyway. Her tears fell
straight into my eyes. What a lesson—to watch them float back and forth
between us until we knew each one’s shape. Until we knew, finally, what to do
with them.


pink moon

Outside, the colors leapt from the trees. Here, inside, some new word was
blooming in my underwear—darker than I’d expected. I’d expected something
pink; a slow, sweet trickle. Not this wet tar, treacle, dark, like the blood
had been stretching inside me for years, slow-building into a sticky chord,
the first falling away. Soil’s been watered; come play. First stuck, first
gum, first hum of pollen, calling in the bees and readying to wilt.


flower moon

Spring is the season of crying and seeing nothing. Of choking up on someone
else’s trash. Barbed tennis balls that lodge wherever air’s supposed to go,
nasal cavity homewreckers. All spring my lenses wrenched themselves from my
eyes, jumped ship, spore-lined and furious. Everything melted and ran down my
face. All the trees wanted my number. Sent fuzzy messengers to murmur in my
ears: _I get so afraid sometimes all I want all I want is_. All spring I
brushed confessions out of my hair. Tore the little letters apart and locked
myself in the refrigerator, until the world promised to stop birthing such
soft things.


strawberry moon

The house was filled with the smell of it, the last misshapen, sweet-heavy
berries of the season losing their shapes on the stove. The house was filled
with the smell of fruit unbecoming, fruit pulled to its knees at fire’s feet.
All summer long, the bushes had whispered _take me_ , shown us all the places
we could kiss if we wanted. And so, as the light died, we put our mouths on
the least lovable, the too-full, the easy-bruised, we shouted, _I choose you,
and you, and you, and you,_ and canned that hunger, and spooned it into our
mouths on the coldest days.


buck moon

Some of the cloven-hoofed things are good at leaping from one rock shelf to
another without shattering. Good, in other words, at falling. I never trusted
that ankles were any match for my body’s insistence on becoming earth again.
So when I found myself on the cliff face, I knew it was dive or dust. A boy
called to me from the bottom of the gorge, called me all the names he knew,
and I stood frozen, wearing a crown of bones. The gravel laughed as it fled
from my feet. I shouted down to the boy, _Don’t try to milk me unless you’re
fond of being kicked — buck and bray and jawbone._ He responded, _No, totally,
sounds tough, how are you feeling?_


sturgeon moon

I hid in his rivers and estuaries. I ate his wet earth’s crops. I grew plump
for him. Grew egg-lined, thirty tiny hearts in my belly, fruit thumping with
seeds. He pulled me from the mud. Laid me out in the sun. Opened me down the
center. Scraped every dead daughter from my silly maw. I learned better next
time. Next time, I grew three extra rows of seeds. Hid them in my mouth.
Sharpened them to teeth.


harvest moon

Last winter, when we finally kissed under fluorescent lights, that was the
seed we pressed between the ground’s lips. Then I laughed when the sky
collapsed into pathetic rivers. Then I drank the dirt through my hooves, and
liked it. Then I ate all the sun I could find. Though the weeds claw, sugar-
starved, at my thighs. Though the sky casts over, cataract, callous, and the
earth fumes as iron claws uproot the children’s children we keep warm in our
bellies. Still, when the moon and the horses are fat on the horizon, still
you’ll find me, arms heavy with eggplant, chard, tomatoes bruised blue,
blushing kohlrabi till the kohlrabi’s gone. Will you pluck me before the dust
does, root and all, radicchio tendon? I promise, I’ll feed no upright animal.
Only the bees and the bees, beans sitting on the squash’s face. Will you turn
your palms to the sky? Will you turn your palms to the prayer hunger makes?
Will you feed and feed, and lick the bowl clean when we’re both full?


hunter’s moon

I picked up my own scent somewhere on the forest’s edge. Spoiling flour, holy
basil, sweat. My oldest smell is the smell that still clings to pajama sleeves
late into Saturday afternoon. Toothpaste, mixed with the musk of rest. I
pressed my snout to the ground and breathed deep, watched the tendrils of my
slug trail bloom blue, bioluminescent. I followed the maze, pushbrooming
forest floor with face, followed the promise of a rapid heart. Don’t ask who’s
the bloodhound, who’s the hare, when there’s a chase to be made: the clarity
of a cardinal direction clicking into place. And: the quickening—the tendons
that appear, sudden, when the distant, rabid howl of hunters rolls across the
tree line, and you lift your head in greeting.


beaver moon

We made our home in the place where the water slowed. Yes. We flooded the
plains until the landscape bloomed with wet. We stopped the tub. We drew a
bath and called the river to its new, quieter life. Ring-builders. Kingdom
carved. At the end of the line, we made our own place. Sure, from above, it
looks like a snaking tail, headed by a circle. From here, in the mud, it
doesn’t look like that at all. It looks like a world. Like a cleared space.
Like everything that’s left when the trees soften and come, at last, crashing.


cold moon

Back below the ice. Back to swim. Seastar. Creeping brine. We salt, sink. We
pull down the cold. We pull the moon to our floor.      Hello.
Waterstone. Brinicle. Cold-blooded and still flesh.    Still    horned
fingers groping the kelp bed. Still salt. Pull. Everything the ice touches. Is
ours. Is quiet now. We sink slow. We pray still. For moon. We answer it now.
Ourselves.