# Pommes Sautees
## Matthew Sweeney
As I walked up the Rue des Martyrs with my bag of small, perfect, waxy
potatoes I doffed my imaginary hat to Monsieur Parmentier. Well, I do have a
hat and wore it a lot not so long ago to cover a healing wound on my forehead
but this wasn’t necessary anymore, and anyway the hat wasn’t with me now in
Paris. Nor was Monsieur Parmentier, though any remains of him lie in a plot in
Père Lachaise ringed by potato plants.
I would not be intending to cook my potatoes if not for the duplicitous
actions of Parmentier back in the late years of the 18th century. After he’d
realized that this odd-shaped tuber looted from the Incas in Peru (along with
their gold and silver) was extremely nutritious, and no one would believe him,
he’d come up with a ruse. Using money given to him by King Louis XVI, he
purchased a plot of impoverished ground outside Paris, in Neuilly-sur-Seine,
and planted it with potatoes. When the time to dig them came, he built a fence
around them and put armed guards outside it. These men wore uniforms the color
of potatoes. They were told to leak the news that they were guarding an
extremely precious food. Then, one night, they left their post. Thieves
arrived within a couple of hours and stole the entire crop. Over the next few
days the potatoes were sold in the city’s markets as the food of kings.
So my guests wouldn’t know they would be eating the food of kings. Nor would I
tell them, though I might well concoct a story about the breed of pigs their
pork chops had come from. And the posh wine that had yielded the wine vinegar
I’d used in the salad dressing. I could try telling them I’d climbed over the
fence of Père Lachaise the previous night, armed with a phone-torch, a
troweling spade, and a canvas bag, and dug the potatoes from Monsieur
Parmentier’s plot — only taking the small ones that were right for _pommes
sautées_ , of course — but I know they wouldn’t believe me.
I was distracted from these smug reveries by my mobile phone ringing. I dug it
out of my pocket and answered it, thinking one advantage of being in France
was that nobody rang me. The voice at the other end was not one I recognized.
It said, at first quietly, “Are you OK?” then in a louder voice, “Please tell
me you’re OK over there,” and that was it. When I went to check the number, it
had been withheld. What had I landed myself in, I wondered? I went home to
deal with my 19th-century French meal.