# Rain
## Francis Ponge
The rain, in the backyard where I watch it fall, comes down at different
rates. In the center a fine discontinuous curtain — or network — falls
implacably and yet gently in drops that are probably quite light; a
strengthless sempiternal precipitation, an intense fraction of the atmosphere
at its purest. A little distance from the walls to the right and left plunk
heavier drops, one by one. Here they seem about the size of grains of wheat,
the size of a pea, while elsewhere they are big as marbles. Along gutters and
window frames the rain runs horizontally, while depending from the same
obstacles it hangs like individually wrapped candies. Along the entire surface
of a little zinc roof under my eyes it trickles in a very thin sheet, a moiré
pattern formed by the varying currents created by the imperceptible bumps and
undulations of the surface. From the gutter it flows with the restraint of a
shallow creek until it tumbles out into a perfectly vertical net, rather
imperfectly braided, all the way to the ground where it breaks and sparkles
into brilliant needles.

Each of its forms has its particular allure and corresponds to a particular
patter. Together they share the intensity of a complex mechanism  as precise
as it is dangerous, like a steam-powered clock whose spring is wound by the
force of the precipitation.

The ringing on the ground of the vertical trickles, the glug-glug of the
gutters, the miniscule strikes of the gong multiply and resonate all at once
in a concert without monotony, and not without a certain delicacy.

Once the spring unwinds itself certain wheels go on turning for a while, more
and more slowly, until the whole mechanism comes to a stop. It all vanishes
with the sun: when it finally reappears, the brilliant apparatus evaporates.
It has rained.

_Translated from the French_