# Remaindering: Habits
## Karthika Naïr
St. Andrews. Forbach. Gothenburg. Sète. Douai. Roubaix. The towns we knew as
shapes at night, or a stranger in the next berth half-hidden beneath a duvet.
A whirling midnight of boat-hopping in Nantes. Half of Lyon from 2001: all the
mornings julienned into sunshine and periwinkle skies at Croix-Rousse; Sunday
ends at La Cigale (or was it La Fourmi, or both?), redolent of the ashes and
smoke and crimson drapes of Wong Kar-wai; the salad bowl tossing an ever-
delayed sunrise over your cracked skylight; those 73 lines (563 words) you
managed to fit alongside eternity on an un-postmarked card. Some
constellations—Aquarius, Aries, Hydra, Pegasus. The blue-and-canary-yellow
polka-dotted python who still gobbles me up on the 99th square. A weekend in
Rouen where I drank the sun with a red plastic straw. Dimples on your stubbled
left cheek that surface from a dream at 5 am alone, my wonder at their
constancy. Your hands wrapped around my fugitive breath even through those
dreams. The sight of a baby in the metro who looked like she could be ours
(and my relief she was not). The July afternoon the sun left the map of Spain
on a thigh. The year I turned cartographer at beachside siestas, mapping the
stir of sand across your back, the blue rivulets under your skin navigating
their way toward a heartbeat. The giant, prismatic, poster of Mira Nair’s
_Monsoon Wedding_ covering fissures on a kitchen wall; two wickerwork laundry
baskets from Dinjan; wooden ladles, now splintered; that livid indigo hand-
braided quilt: the first among joint possessions. Twelve-hour road trips
across France under unwashed stars to help resettle schoolmates. Piles of
moldy Satyajit Ray VHS tapes. A map of free Bangladesh. The Māori mask gifted
by a fellow passenger on the train from Georgetown. Noughts-and-crosses played
on the rafters of a hotel ceiling. Every yesterday but the second, quieter
than the first yet more fragrant. Keep them, and stay: yes, they are yours
from today.














What will I take instead, you ask? Solenoid, ouroboros and African paayal:
words we learnt from each other. Sputters of   laughter over the misspelling
of _récipiendaire_ in my hundred-and-twenty-paged dissertation you went on to
supervise. A first date with Patrice Chéreau’s _Intimacy_ that left us bereft
of voice but not touch. The spring lost in Paris, and retrieved in Rome:
neonate but blithe and loud. Den Bosch and its soundless mornings, where even
birds meditate. Dublin, yes, despite the disasters with missing kathak ankle
bells and katana. Those shy cities that blush at dusk when the sun’s gaze
fills with sudden desire. Others undressed by moonlight. The unsubsidized,
incomplete report “Science and the Art of Rolling Balls and Other Machines.”
All the lines of poetry you thought, and refused to write. The crackle and
splutter of toast burning before breakfast. A tuneless humming muffled by
shower curtains. Matinal half-hour radio-switch battles between RFI and BBC
World. Sighting the smile on a natal cleft as you reach up for the tin of dark
chocolate. _Haroun and the Sea of Stories_ and _Invisible Cities_ , more mine
than yours: yes, I can play dirty on this. Canal Saint-Martin—but only the
curve between the café Le Valmy and Pont de la Grange-aux-Belles. Koodiyattam
as a birthday surprise when the gods left their paddy fields and invaded
Paris, complete with cobalt and emerald cheeks, human woes and joys. The first
encounter with Pina Bausch’s _Café Müller_. Every single one with her _Rite of
Spring_. My fear of dying alone in a strange city at night. Copper and
caramel: the two shades your gaze seems to traverse between dusk and daybreak.
Other constellations: Pisces and Lynx and Phoenix. The ancient fleece jacket
each would wear when the other was not around. All of Terry Pratchett’s
Discworld books we owned together. The word _together_ , as well. The fact you
shared aloud in surprise at tea: a giraffe’s heart weighs an incredible 24
pounds. Today. Tomorrow. A spring tide of tomorrows