# rudie can't fail in south padre
## Quraysh Ali Lansana
there was a rude boy on my jean jacket. black suit, shades and hat, skanking
where orange street met birmingham. two-tone ska a second skin, a way to
believe, though unsure why. days on this island with wasted republican frat
boys and sorority girls, pompous u.s citizens, northern americanos with trust
funds. only white dudes in sight without reagan hair are in the front of the
car, a sputtering nondescript, and later pugs, the skinhead in boots and
leather below unfiltered sun, unsure if peyote caps or heat is source of
glistening blister of a head. an equally overdressed chubby blonde woman at
his side who he swears sounds just like janis. on cue, val fills the hotel
courtyard where my misfit crew hope for a corner of a floor not coated in puke
or recent sex rented by bobcat’s brother’s sigma hate niggas fraternity. her
dense wail careens off ten stories like a friday night public address system.
so close to another why not join the hollow migration? us, funboy three,
avoiding the same people in a different country. tequila, laughter and
respect. then border patrol. stinking agave as he checks licenses and cargo
space. when he opens the back door, rudy rests beside skinny black sophomore
with a flat top. one front pocket open, the other concealing skunk. i consider
what dank brick lines the cells, how long i will drink sweat because it tastes
better than juarez prison chow. he reaches in the open pocket, returns rude
boy to the seat. welcome home, boys. enjoy yourself, he says. it’s later than
you think.