# Seventeen Funerals
## Richard Blanco
Seventeen suns rising in seventeen bedroom windows. Thirty-four eyes blooming
open with the light of one more morning. Seventeen reflections in the bathroom
mirror. Seventeen backpacks or briefcases stuffed with textbooks or lesson
plans. Seventeen _good mornings_ at kitchen breakfasts and seventeen
_goodbyes_ at front doors. Seventeen drives through palm-lined streets and
miles of crammed highways to Marjory Stoneman Douglas High School at 5901 Pine
Island Road. The first bell ringing-in one last school day on February
fourteenth, 2018. Seventeen echoes of footsteps down hallways for five class
periods: algebra, poetry, biology, art, history. Seventeen hands writing on
whiteboards or taking notes at their desks until the first gunshot at 2:21pm.
One AR-15 rifle in the hands of a nineteen year old mind turning hate for
himself into hate for others, into one-hundred fifty bullets fired in six
minutes through building number twelve. Seventeen dead carried down hallways
they walked, past cases of trophies they won, flyers for clubs they belonged
to, lockers they won’t open again. Seventeen Valentine’s Day dates broken and
cards unopened. Seventeen bodies to identify, dozens of photo albums to page
through and remember their lives. Seventeen caskets and burial garments to
choose for them. Seventeen funerals to attend in twelve days. Seventeen graves
dug and headstones placed—all marked with the same date of death. Seventeen
names: Alyssa. Helena. Scott. Martin—seventeen absentees forever—Nicholas.
Aaron. Jamie. Luke—seventeen closets to clear out—Christopher. Cara. Gina.
Joaquin—seventeen empty beds—Alaina. Meadow. Alex. Carmen. Peter—seventeen
reasons to rebel with the hope these will be the last seventeen to be taken by
one of three-hundred-ninety-three-million guns in America.