# She Spent a Year Hallucinating Birds
## Jill Alexander Essbaum
They perched on roofs and fences and sills. They posed statue-still on
catenary lines. They aligned along cables like prayer beads on rope. They
amassed en masse on the cemetery lawn and marauded the broad, yawning fields
like cattle. Their cackles were black. Each shadow dove and pecked. They
nested in chimneys and chirped at the chime of the church bell. They worked in
shifts. Clocked out at odd hours. They laid their eggs in the _V_ s of trees.
They teemed on the dry-baked banks of creek beds, streams the sun had
overseen. They teetered on the bed-knob tops of flagpoles. They pitched like
pennies into founts. They pitched like babies into wells. They thumped at
doors then skulked away like hoodlum teens. They jabbed her. When she cried
they did it faster. Everyone knows what happened next. Some grew big as
sunflower stalks, others tall like bonfire flames. Or moving vans. Or the
sick, brick houses people die inside of every night. Their hatchlings canopied
the sky. Was it her fault, then, when they pinned her to the ground and thrust
their feathers down her throat? Or wormed between her legs in bad-man ways? Or
rattled plumes and whooped and beat her body with their wings? Or locked their
talons to her thighs and _tra-la-la_ -ed that ditty from the old-time music
box? Or forced their whiskies past her lips? Or put her in the pillory? This
was foreplay, in a way. They rolled in rabid packs and woofed like dogs. She
couldnâ€™t throw a bone. The meat was gone. They chased her and they named her
and they boiled her tears and bathed her. Then they ate her.