# Stripe for Stripe
## C. D. Wright
Driving through this part of Louisiana you can pass four prisons in less than
an hour. "The spirit of every age," writes Eric Schlosser, "is manifest in its
public works." So this is who we are, the jailers, the jailed. This is the
spirit of our age.

"You won't be back will you," asked the inmate who told me he wanted to be a
success.

  **\+ + +**

Try to remember it the way it was. Try to remember what I wore when I visited
the prisons. Trying to remember how tall was my boy then. What books I was
teaching. Trying to remember how I hoped to add one true and lonely word to
the host of texts that bear upon incarceration.

Something about the extra-realism of that peculiar institution caused me to
balk, also the resistance of poetry to the conventions of evidentiary writing,
notwithstanding top-notch examples to the contrary: Mandelstam, Akhmatova,
Wilde, Valéry, Celan, Desnos, et al. After all, I am not _them._ She asked me
to come down, my friend the photographer and I went, and then I wanted to see
whether my art could handle that hoe.

Trying to remember how my skin felt when I opened an envelope of proofs of
Deborah Luster's intimate aluminum portraits of the inmates at Transylvania
(the site of East Carroll Parish Prison Farm, a minimum-security male prison,
now closed); then Angola (the site of Louisiana State Penitentiary, maximum
security, ever-growing); then St. Gabriel (the site of the Louisiana
Correctional Institution for Women, the LCIW). I was electrified by the first
face—a young, handsome man blowing smoke out of his nose. Behind every
anonymous number, a very specific face.

On the phone my friend had described to me the rich Delta grounds of Angola,
18,000 acres. Angola, where the topsoil is measured not in inches but feet.
The former sugarcane plantation lies at the confluence of rivers and
borderland of the vermin-and-vine-choked Tunica Hills. Grey pelicans nest on
the two prison lakes; alongside the airstrip are the grading sheds, the
endless fields of okra and corn. Then there's the prison museum, the prison
radio station, the prison monthly magazine; the tracking horses and tracking
dogs trained by inmates... and the tree-lined neighborhood of free-world
residents, their children bused outside the fence to school. Then the
immaculate cinderblock buildings that house the inmates, the administration
building, and the death house; the greenhouse and extensive flower beds—take
away the fencing and it resembles nothing so much as a college campus. The men
in maximum number more than the men who lived in my hometown. Then there's the
geriatric unit, the award-winning hospice program; the caisson the inmates
built to bear the dead in the hand-built coffins to one of the two graveyards
inside the prison. In the old burial ground most graves are not identified by
name. The caisson is pulled by draft horses, French Quarter style. When the
champion of the prison rodeo had a heart attack in the fields, a riderless
horse led the final procession. The celebrated inmate's uniform was "retired"
to the prison museum.

Everything about Louisiana seems to constitute itself differently from
everywhere else in the Union: the food, the idiom, the stuff in the trees, the
critters in the water, and the laws, Napoleonic, not mother-country common
law. The prisons inevitably mirror differences found in the free world. Where
they came up with their mirrors is another mystery. (In maximum, they are made
of metal.) The definition of the face is a memory.

Vivid to me is Debbie saying that at the trial of her mother's murderer, she
looked around and saw the people sitting on separate sides of the courtroom,
the way they do at a wedding, the bride's people, the groom's people, and she
tried to take in the damage radiating through the distinct lines—the
perpetrator's side, the victim's side.

Vivid to me is leaving Angola after the first visit and Debbie asking what I
thought, and I said (too fast) I thought those were the nicest people I had
ever met, and the ironic laughter it provoked in us both, the car yawing. The
obvious truth, people are people. Equally, the damage is never limited to
perpetrator and victim. Also, that the crimes are not the sum of the criminal
any more than anyone is entirely separable from their acts.

I remember an afternoon at the iron pile at Transylvania watching the men
quietly plait each other's hair between sets at the weight bench. When I asked
about a man whose face was severely scarred, a very specific face, with large,
direct aquamarine eyes, a guard told me that the man's brother had thrown a
tire over his head and set it on fire. This I did not know how to absorb. It
was a steaming day; the men were lifting weights and plaiting their hair.

I remember Easter weekend at the women's prison. The day before, a long line
formed outside the prison-run beauty shop. Inside, the women having their hair
fixed were talking back to a soap opera on the small snowy screen. By visiting
day the inner courtyard had been transformed into a theme park for the
children. A trampoline had been rented, a cotton-candy machine; someone
dressed in a bunny suit was organizing an egg hunt. The girls wore starched,
flouncy dresses, and the boys white jackets and black, clip-on bow ties. The
women were dressed up, too, even the ones shackled at ankle and waist. Deborah
photographed all day, nonstop. Identifiable pictures of children would have to
be excluded from publication, but people wanted a keepsake. We left before
visiting hours ended. It wasn't our place to be there. It wasn't really in us
to be there.

Remember sitting in the frigid Holiday Inn bar near St. Gabriel, at the end of
one visit to the women's prison, staring at the aquarium, not talking.

Talking to a man who says he has done a lot of time. Lot of time. He should
write a book, he says. He wants to be a success. "Hollywood, huh, here I
come."

Talking to a woman who says the one time her dad visited her from the Midwest,
she asked him to look at her eyes. There was a look she didn't want to get, a
faraway look. Her father pretended to examine her eyes, then told her they
looked like the same old peepers to him. She passed her time reading. Same way
she passed her childhood. She thought she was going to be an astronomer when
she grew up. Not a felon.

Both parents are dead now. Of her three sons, one disappeared, one died of
suicide, and the third severed contact.

One of the inmates at St. Gabriel informed me she wouldn't be around for
visiting hours tomorrow because she was on the drill team. Also, her ex-
husband would not be bringing her baby boy to see her. Not tomorrow, not ever.

The grease burns, I am told by another inmate, are courtesy of her sister.

Don't Walk On The Grass, says the sign posted in the inner yard.

Then there's the bus that leaves from Monroe taking visitors to one of four
neighboring pens, Al Derry's Prison Transport and Popcorn Balls. Evidently,
the popcorn balls make it the competitive ride. Only in Louisiana.

After a time. A lot of time. They stop coming. The free-worlders. They are too
poor or too busy working or are already looking after others on the outside or
their car is broken or they are too worn down or they move too far off or they
get old, sick, and die. So the inmates wait for their turn.

They aren't going anywhere. They have all the time there is.

"The only continuity of our lives," wrote Malcolm Braly, American writer,
American lifer, "was that we had none."

"Waiting," goes the motto at St. Gabriel, "it's the LCIW way."

I wrote a woman and asked whether she ever had any pets. She wrote back:
Bandit, Baby, Snobby, Elsie, Bear (those were the dogs). Tiger and Fuzzball
(the cats), Jill, Ben, and Junior (the coons). And a lot of unnamed fish,
hamsters, rabbits, chickens, ducks, geese, guinea pigs, "and a deer, not
really a pet but I finally coaxed to the point she would eat out of my hand."

Not to idealize, not to judge, not to exonerate, not to aestheticize
immeasurable levels of pain. Not to demonize, not anathematize. What I wanted
was to unequivocally lay out the real feel of hard time. I wanted it given to
understand that when you pass four prisons in less than an hour, the
countryside's apparent emptiness is more legible. It is an open, running
comment when the only spike in employment statistics is being created by the
supply of people crossing the line.

I wanted the banter, the idiom, the soft-spoken cadence of Louisiana speech to
cut through the mass-media myopia. I wanted the heat, the humidity, the
fecundity of Louisiana to travel right up the body. What I wanted was to
convey the sense of normalcy for which humans strive under conditions that are
anything but what we in the free world call normal, no matter what we may have
done for which we were never charged.

The world of the prison system springs up adjacent to the free world. As the
towns decline, the prisons grow. As industries disappear, prisons proliferate,
state-funded prison-building surges are complemented by private-investment
promising "to be an integral component of your corrections strategy,"
according to an industry founder. The interrelation of poverty, illiteracy,
substance and physical abuse, mental illness, race, and gender to the prison
population is blaring to the naked eye and borne out by the statistics. Of the
developed nations, only Russia aspires to our rate of incarceration. And the
Big Bear is a distant second. Ladies and Gentlemen of the Jury, the warp in
the mirror is of our making.

The popular perception is that art is apart. I insist it is a part of.
Something not in dispute is that people in prison are apart from. If you can
accept—whatever level of discipline and punishment you adhere to momentarily
set aside—that the ultimate goal should be to reunite the separated with the
larger human enterprise, it might behoove us to see prisoners, among others,
as they elect to be seen, in their larger selves. If we go there, if not with
our bodies then at least our minds, we are more likely to register the
implications.

 **\+ + +**

I am going to prison.
I am going to visit three prisons in Louisiana.
I am going on the heels of my longtime friend Deborah Luster, a photographer.
It is a summons.
All roads are turning into prison roads.
I already feel guilty.
I haven't done anything.
But I allow the mental pull in both directions.
I am going to prison in order to write about it. Like a nineteenth-century
traveler.
Kafka put it this way, "Guilt is never to be doubted."
Also: behind every anonymous number, a very specific face.
Also: there are more than two million individuals, in this country, whose
sentences have rendered them more or less invisible. Many of them permanently.
First to Transylvania. Then Angola. Then St. Gabriel. These are their place-
names
Over the next year and a half Deborah Luster will photograph upwards of 1,500
inmates.
I will make three trips.
It is an almost imperceptible gesture, a flick of the conscience, to go, to
see, but I will be wakeful.
It is a summons.