# Study of Two Figures (Pasiphae/Sado)
## Monica Youn
One figure is female, the other is male.

Both are contained.

One figure is mythical, the other historical.

To the extent that one can be said to have existed at all, they occupy
different millennia, different continents.

But, to the extent that one can be said to have existed at all, both figures
are considered Asian—one from Colchis, one from Korea.

To mention the Asianness of the figures creates a “racial marker” in the poem.

This means that the poem can no longer pass as a white poem, that different
people can be expected to read the poem, that they can be expected to read the
poem in different ways.

To mention the Asianness of the figures is also to mention, by implication,
the Asianness of the poet.

Revealing a racial marker in a poem is like revealing a gun in a story or like
revealing a nipple in a dance.

After such a revelation, the poem is _about_ race, the story is _about_ the
gun, the dance is _about_ the body of the dancer—it is no longer considered a
dance at all and is subject to regulation.

Topics that have this gravitational quality of _about_ ness are known as “hot
button” topics, such as race, violence, or sex.

“Hot button” is a marketing term, coined by Walter Kiechel III, in a September
1978 issue of _Fortune_ magazine.

The term evokes laboratory animals and refers to consumer desires that need to
be slaked.

The term “hot button” suggests not only the slaking of such desires but also a
shock or punishment for having acted on those desires, a deterrent to further
actions pursuing such desires, and by extension, a deterrent to desire itself.

Violence and sex are examples of desires and can be satisfied, punished, and
deterred.

Race is not usually considered an example of desire.

Both the female and the male figures are able to articulate their desires with
an unusual degree of candor and specificity.

Both are responsible for many sexual deaths.

The male figure says, “When anger grips me, I cannot contain myself. Only
after I kill something—a person, perhaps an animal, even a chicken—can I calm
down.... I am sad that Your Majesty does not love me and terrified when you
criticize me. All this turns to anger.” “Your Majesty,” here, refers to the
king, his father.

The female figure is never directly quoted, but Pseudo-Apollodorus writes that
she casts a spell upon the king her husband so that when he has sex with
another woman, he ejaculates wild creatures into the woman’s vagina, thereby
killing her. Although the punishment is enacted on the body of the woman, this
punishment is meant to deter the king from slaking his desires.

Both figures, royal themselves, are angry at the king, but neither attempts to
kill the king—which would be political. Instead they displace this anger onto
other unnamed deaths, which are considered sexual but not political.

Both figures have spouses known for strategy, for self-preservation in
politically tumultuous times, times of many unnamed deaths.

Both figures are counterfoils to their strategizing spouses, figures of
excessive  desire, requiring containment.

Both containers are wooden.

Both containers are camouflaged with a soft, yielding substance—one with
grass, one with fur.

Both containers are ingenious solutions to seemingly intractable problems.

One problem is political. One problem is sexual.

They are both the same problem.

They have the same solution.

The male figure waits in the container for death to come. He waits for eight
days. His son will live. This ensures the succession, the frictionless
transfer of power.

The female figure waits in the container for the generation of a life. We do
not know how long she waits. Her son will die, after waiting in his own wooden
container. This ensures the succession, the frictionless transfer of power.

There are many artistic representations of both containers.

The male figure’s container is blockish, unadorned, a household object of
standard size and quotidian function. Tourists climb into it and pose for
photos, post them online. The cramped position of their bodies generates a
combination of horror and glee. This, in turn, creates discomfort, the
recognition that horror and glee should not be combined, that such a
combination is taboo.

The female figure’s container is customized, lushly contoured. Its contours
are excessively articulated to the same degree that her desire is excessively
articulated. Artists depict the container in cutaway view, revealing the
female figure within, awaiting the wild creature. The abject position of the
female figure—on all fours, pressing her genitalia back against the hollow
cow’s genitalia—generates a combination of lust and revenge. This, in turn,
creates discomfort—the recognition that lust and revenge should not be
combined, that wild creatures and female figures should not be combined, that
these combinations are taboo.

Hot button topics are taboo because they generate discomfort.

The male figure slakes his violent desires and is punished. The male figure
also functions as a hot button, a means whereby the violent desires of
tourists  are slaked, while generating discomfort in these tourists.

The female figure slakes her sexual desires and is punished. The female
figure also functions as a hot button, a means whereby the sexual desires of
artists are slaked, while generating discomfort in these artists.

The tourist can climb into the rice chest. The tourist can pose for a photo in
the rice chest. Then the tourist can climb out of the rice chest and walk
away.

The artist can look into the hollow cow. The artist can render the contours of
the hollow cow, the contours of the female figure. Then the artist can walk
away.

Both containers allow the tourist and artist to touch the hot button, the
taboo.

The desire and the discomfort remain contained.

Both containers allow the tourist and the artist to walk away.

The male and female figures remain contained.

Neither container—the rice chest, the hollow cow—appears to have any necessary
connection to race.

To mention race where it is not necessary to mention race is taboo.

I have not mentioned the race of the tourist or the artist.

The tourist and the artist are allowed to pass for white.

The tourist and the artist are not contained.

I have already mentioned the race of the poet.

But to the extent that the poet is not contained, the poet is allowed to pass
for white.

I have already mentioned the race of the male and female figures.

The male and female figures are contained.

The rice chest and the hollow cow are containers.

The rice chest and the hollow cow are not the only containers in this poem.

Colchis and Korea are containers in this poem.

Asianness is a container in this poem.

Race is a container in this poem.

Each of these containers contains desire and its satisfaction.

Each of these containers contains discomfort and deterrence.

Each of these containers contains a hot button, a taboo.

The tourist and the artist can enter each of these containers.

The tourist and the artist can touch the hot button and walk away.

Each of these containers separates the slaking of desire from the punishment
of desire.

Each of these containers is an ingenious solution to a seemingly intractable
problem.

They are the same problem.

They have the same solution.

Each of these containers ensures the frictionless transfer of power.

Each of these containers holds a male or female figure.

The name of the male figure can be translated as “Think of me in sadness.”

The name of the female figure can be translated as “I shine for all of you.”