# the children of immigrants
## Lenelle Moïse
When I am a toddler, a child, a tween, a teen, and a young adult, I am called
an ancestral soul, a ti gran moun, a little old person.

Adults study me and decide that I am wise beyond my years, mature for my age,
emotionally ripe. I am told it is unusual to meet a five-ten-fifteen-year-old
girl who does not slouch or mumble or speak in monosyllables.

When I do the things that come naturally to me—when I hold my spine up erect,
when I wait my turn to speak, when I speak having listened, carefully, when I
enunciate, when I look grown-ups in the eye—I am told I must have “been here
before.”

"How do you know?" one college professor asks me after she has seen a
psychologically violent play I have written at age nineteen. "How do you
already know?”

In high school, I charm my teachers. They encourage me to write speeches about
feminism that I recite for International Women's Day at City Hall or deliver
as part of conference panels at local universities. “If you were older," they
tell me, "we would probably be friends.” One of them even flirts with me.

Among my peers I exist somewhere between amicably mysterious and irrevocably
dorky. The popular kids greet me in the hallways, but they never invite me to
their beer-drenched parties. I will never play Spin the Bottle. I will never
play Seven Minutes in Heaven. My mother tells me she is protecting me from
boys, but the truth is, after I do my homework, she wants me to type up
another family friend’s résumé or resignation letter. At home, I am a bridge,
a cultural interpreter, a spokesperson, a trusted ally, an American who is
Haitian too, but also definitely American.

The children of immigrants don't get to be children. We lose our innocence
watching our parents' backs bend, break. I am an old soul because when I am
young, I watch my parents' spirits get slaughtered.

In Haiti, they were middle class. Hopeful teachers. Home owners. They were
black like their live-in servants. They donated clothes to the poor. They gave
up everything they knew to inherit American dreams. And here, they join
factory lines, wipe shit from mean old white men's behinds, scrub five-star
hotel toilets for dimes above minimum wage. Here, they shuck and jive and step
and fetch and play chauffeur to people who aren't as smart as they are, people
who do not speak as many languages as they do. In the 1980s, they are barred
from giving blood because newscasters and politicians say that AIDS comes from
where they come from: Haiti, the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere, a
black magic island that spawns boat people and chaos, a place of illiterate
zombies, orphan beggars and brazen political corruption.

When I am a child, my childhood is a luxury my family cannot afford. Their
dignity is not spared, so my innocence is not spared. They are humiliated and
traumatized daily, so I become a nurse to their trauma. I am told too much, so
I know too much, so I am wise beyond my years.

When I am six, my mother tells me that when she found out she was pregnant
with me at age nineteen, she “tried to kill the baby." She says "the baby," as
if it isn’t me she’s talking about; as if I am not the expensive, scandalous
daughter who forced my way into her world despite the abortion-inducing herbal
teas she drank and her frantic leaps off of small buildings.

When I am sixteen, my father calls me on the phone to, inevitably, weep. He
says, "Living in this country, I have learned not to hope for things. Only you
are my hope. Only you."

So—yes, I grow up fast.