# The Book of Mycah
## Joshua Bennett
Son of Man. Son of Marvin & Tallulah. Son of Flatbush & roti & dollar vans
bolting down the avenue after six. The boy grew like a debt, & beautified
every meter of the pockmarked, jet black asphalt which held him aloft on days
he sped from much larger men along its skin. Godfathers & hustlers, Division 1
scholarship forfeiters, alchemists, liars, lasagna connoisseurs, Internet
mixtape DJs & baby mama conflict consultants, each one appearing as if from
the smoke of our  collective imagination, Jordans laced, drawstrings taut, all
of them gathered one by one to race the gangly, mop-top prodigy from the front
of Superior Market to the block’s endarkened terminus, the same corner where
Man Man got jumped so bad at the back end of last summer, neighborhood
residents came to regard the place as a kind of memorial & it was like this
every other afternoon, you know, from June through the final days leading up
to the book drives & raucous cookouts which signaled our school year’s
inauspicious return, this was the manner by which Mycah Dudley first gained
his fame, dusting grown men without so much as the faintest scintillation of
sweat to make the performance ethical. It was damn near unsportsmanlike, his
effortlessness, mass cruelty in a New York City dreamscape, the laughter of
girls with hip-length, straight-back braids & baby powder Forces making every
contest an event worth leaving the perch of your bunk bed, stepping out into
the record-breaking swelter that summer held like a trap door for kids with
broken box fans & no mother home for at least four more hours to fill the
quiet with discipline.


•


We gathered in swarms to gawk at our boy before takeoff. His flesh maroon-clad
from head to foot like an homage to blood, black plastic afro pick with a fist
for a handle jutting from the left side of his high-top fade, his high-top
Chuck Taylors, size 12, sounding like ox hooves once he entered the groove of
a good run & the distinction was basically moot at that point is what I am
saying, the line between him & any other mystical creature, any worthwhile
myth, any god of prey or waning life.


•


The entire block was out that night. Firecrackers packed the blackening air,
their fury matched only by the exorbitance of dope-boy  convertibles turned
mobile dancehalls by the moment’s weight. Which might explain why no one quite
remembers when, or how, the now-infamous brawl began. Only that Mycah was in
rare form earlier that evening, having just embarrassed Mars Patterson — so
named, it bears mentioning, for the chocolate bars he loved to steal & trade
on the 4 train, not the red rock planet or lord of war — but was now in his
everyday mode, seated on the stoop, a seer with so few words for devotees &
passersby, each eventually stopped asking for his backstory,  for his praise
or functional wisdom, & instead were content to let him eat his veggie patty
with cheese without interruption, which he did, which he was, when the din
that always accompanies someone’s son’s public pummeling rang out, cut through
our scene lengthwise, compelled the boy, for the first time on record, to leap
from the steps of the brownstone his nana died braiding hair inside of, enter
the scrum, thresh the crowd for signs of the conflict’s center.


•


General consensus has it he was looking for his little cousin, & found him,
even before the initial cop car ran like a living ram through the people.
Before the boys in blue sprang, a spray of navy fléchettes, from behind its
doors. Before they were caught in the scuffle, released ten to twenty rounds
of ammo into the crowd without warning, bullets glancing off of Cutlass doors
& corner store glass built for battle, all but three or four of which entered
the boy mid-stride, lifted his six-foot frame from the ground, legs still
pumping. For a second, you would almost swear he was running _through_ the
gunfire, preparing for liftoff or something, baby cousin held firmly in his
arms, shielded from the onslaught. _They never would have caught him if he
hadn’t been holding that child_ , said no one, though we all thought it during
the weeks following that moment we each froze, the moment his body collapsed
slow as petals upon the unremarkable cement, & we stared at our champion
felled by an outcome so common we don’t even have a special name for it.
Still. No one standing ran that day. Most of us turned to face his killers,
hands at our sides, determined to make them make it a massacre. But all that
was before we heard Man Man let off a scream so full it rent the crowd in two,
split the circle we had built around the boy’s corpse, our human wall parting
to watch each casing fall from Mycah’s still-wet, dark red sweatshirt onto the
street. Hear me. I heard the gunman’s greeting. Saw hollow points etch
apertures into the boy’s clothes. They shot Mycah Dudley, quite  legally. He
died that night. He rose.