# There and Then
## Michael Brennan
Friends in a field, their shadows running long into the untilled ground, and
I’m busy trying to catch up, calling for them to hold on a moment, the voice
unfamiliar and the words not my own, and when  I wake I realize the last thing
I called to them might have been the name of the town we were all looking for,
but now it’s a summer morning, the light coming in urgent with day, sheets
strewn at the end of the bed, and by the time my mind reaches out for it, that
name or word or thought, it’s gone, perhaps lying there up ahead, with them in
the town beyond the old shed at the edge of the field, with its collection of
discarded tools, hoes and picks and shovels still caked in loam and soil, the
old two-furrow plough and an empty feedbag. There’s a persimmon tree, with its
thin covering of leaves and its branches weighed by tightly packed, hard
orange orbs, dense and  ripening, and a thicket of rosemary sprawling about in
the autumn sun, gone wild, looking like it might take over the world with its
thick rough tines, the heavy scent that rubs off onto skin and lasts all day
even after you wake. But thinking of that town my friends have gone on to,
looking out the window at the summer light, the raging open blue of the sky
outside, I cross past the old shed to where the harrowed ground forms the
first hint of a path between the cherry trees lining the field, to where a
pair of jackdaws come in from the north, creamy white throats quiet as the
flat slate sky above, flit  between some memory of spring, the one gone or the
one up ahead.