# W is for Walt Whitman's Soul
## Divya Victor
One of the very first Indian words to enter the English language was the
Hindustani slang for plunder: "loot."
WILLIAM DALRYMPLE
It sits with a fork made from a lotus on an ivory chair eating an elephant
steak in the company of bears and feral nautch girls on a monsoon evening
incandescent with an appetite as mighty as railroads spann’d across seas and
reclines, its cheeks burnished, its ass varnished by suns setting on bronze
and sugared with saltpetre, its torso a tableaux for the annals of rectitude,
the theatre for roiling or robust passage, a veritable Suez Canal towards
missionary victories which thrust from such bejeweled and oiled loins anointed
by coin— that emission of plump plums, lump sums into the Ganges, that coiling
coy virgin maiden winding her languid locks, batting her lashes to its lashes—
its spine a gentle wire. Supine, its belly swells with salt and figs with meat
and treaties, it corks open a profound song—  _itself it sings_  into books
heavy with truths on the chair dressed with leather and raw hides kissed by ox
blood smeared with beef dung lined with raw silk woven from worms plucked from
boughs basted across its pious beaming eyes its spidery ghosted lids, and its
byzantine glance unmoors from its Chinese porcelain and crosses the ebony
table polished with lac secreted from the cloaca of the  _kerria lacca_  set
with glazed cakes eaten by pinked mouths wearing crimson robes, to its guests
polished and glossed and stained by the ooze drawn to color the uncolored raw
linen, the wood, the human. Then its wrist cuffed by gold and cowries and
studded with coral draws a whisper- thin muslin veil dyed carmine— sucked from
crushed scale of cochineal boiled in ammonia and bled into curds and rouge
glinting sanguineous and turbid between bug and rug snug a thug in redcoat or
a turncoat carrying urns of this stuff— from estates of cocoa coconut calico—
across its face while soft éclairs of chocolate bumble out from its plumed
rump choked with gum and linseed flax and cassia cinnamon and pepper like so
many lines of blood underwriting the mutton and not the goat so it can sell
them with  _a name of a place_  like scarves or garlanded whores moored to
wharves suckled by mother of pearl or teas named after Earls and they with
whole scores to settle settle for homemade cures nettles ginger turmeric— a
paste or to taste—and it steals and seals in letters scented with sandal sent
abroad waxed and pressed with cornelian gems honed from ground it owns and
makes stone from their flesh ekes ink from their sweat soaks indigo in lye
fermented with time and makes color so it can bid for its own passage, the
passage, O of this soul, to India!