# Woe Are You?
## Don Mee Choi
It was hardly war, the hardliest of wars. Hardly, hardly. It occurred to me
that this
particular war was hardly war because of kids, more kids, those poor kids. The
kids
were hungry until we GIs fed them. We dusted them with DDT. Hardly done. Reha-
bilitation of Korea, that is. It needs chemical fertilizer from the States,
power to build
things like a country. In the end it was the hardliest of wars made up of
bubble gum,
which GIs had to show those kids how to chew. In no circumstance whatever can
man be comfortable without art. They don’t want everlasting charity, and we
are not
giving it to them. We are just lending them a hand until they can stand on
their own
two feet. A novel idea. This is why it occurred to me that this particular war
was
hardly war, the hardliest of wars.



My father was hardly himself during the war, then I was born during the era
that
hardly existed, and, therefore, I hardly existed without DDT. Beauty is
pleasure re-
garded as the quality of a thing. I prefer a paper closet with real paper
dresses in
it. To be born hardly, hardly after the hardliest of wars, is a matter of
debate. Still
going forward. We are, that is. Napalm again. This is THE BIG PICTURE. War and
its
masses. War and its men. War and its machines. Together we form THE BIG PIC-
TURE. From Korea to Germany, from Alaska to Puerto Rico. All over the world,
the
US Army is on the alert to defend our country, you the people, against
aggression.
This is THE BIG PICTURE, an official television report to the nation from the
army.
This is Korea! Is one thing better than another? These South Koreans are all
right.
Woe is you, woe is war, hardly war, woe is me, woe are you? My father is still
alive,
and this is how I came to prefer a paper closet with real paper dresses in it.



Well, it’s morning in Korea. The most violently mountainous place on Earth.
Every-
one has been dusted, existence hardly done, whereas beauty has been regarded
as
the quality of a thing. At Uncle Dann’s Huddle doughnuts and coffee are free
and in
case there are any, for there are many, the unescorted ladies are not
permitted. The
decision has been made in Tokyo for the hardliest of wars, an old soldier made
it.
The situation in Korea is so critical that we the Navy must give the Eighth
Army prac-
tical support. Do you remember how you began this day? How did you spend this
morning? Woe are you? Well, pinecones fall every day. So why do we fail? Miles
and
miles of homeless refugees set adrift by the Red scourge.