# Yael
## Paige Lewis
Yael picks at their cuticles. When they speak to themself, they speak out
loud. They speak to themself this morning. _I think_ , they say, _that I am
coming down with wisteria_. Their nail beds a bit purplish.

There’s a Caesar cipher decoder ring in their shredded wheat and, unsure of
what to decode first, Yael hides it under their pillow. Yael says, _Today I’ll
be lonely_. They need the practice.

Yael never drinks their cereal milk, pours it back into the jug. But they are
thirsty. Outside of their tent, the lawn is still entirely a lawn — the
neighbors kept to themselves last night, trampled none of the daffodils. A
good omen. Today Yael can leave their tent without fear. Of what? The omen has
no answer, it presents only the bright of things.

Yael shoves three empty bottles into their bag and heads toward the river.

•

The pigs are having a swim and pay Yael no mind as they submerge each bottle.
Yael imagines the bubbles that shimmy out are the  bottle’s breath, that they
have the power to take breath from anyone.

The hair on their arms turns golden. Then the water. Then the pigs flee. Yael
looks down as Sun approaches. They were already kneeling.  Their shins
disrupting the path of an ant colony’s leaf-carrying  ceremony. The ants do
not bite Yael — Sun is watching, and the ants like being alive, love to feel
the weight of a veiny leaf, love even more the sound their mandibles make
piercing through that leaf.

Sun kicks a flowering fennel as He walks toward Yael, but forgets to change
the wind’s direction. The seeds blow into Yael’s hair and up their nose.
Though Yael did not see Him do it, Sun gives himself away by whining, _It’s
not my fault_.

•

Sun’s whine reminds Yael of their husband, Heber. Heber whines like that when
Yael wants to leave his tent. When Yael doesn’t invite him into their tent.
When Yael doesn’t want to watch a movie that Heber has seen a dozen times.

It’s exhausting to be shown things, to try to enjoy a movie while also giving
a convincing performance of that enjoyment. Heber ruins these screenings — he
weeps before the scenes that call for weeping. He mouths each pivotal line.

So far, Yael has spent their life absorbing men’s favorites. On the rare
occasion that Heber does ask to watch their favorite movie, Yael can’t
remember having one. This makes Yael feel a creaking, hollow-boned kind of
gloom.

This gloom opens the flaps in their brain that make them want to lie in bed
all day.

Yael does not know the sound of their loudest yell. All their noises  have
been practiced. Maybe this is why Sun’s whine makes their cheeks flush. The
sound is a selfish one. Why should it go unpunished?

•

Sometimes, when they think of Heber away at war, Yael grows giddy,  presses
their smile hard into their pillow until the whirling joy  subsides. But what
is the mainspring of that giddiness? They try to dissect the thought:

          Heber = Giddy

                    Or

                              Heber away = Giddy

                                        Or

                                                  Heber away at war = Giddy

•

If Yael were to look up from the dirt, they’d see the kestrels circling above,
their left talons leashed to Sun’s wrist by neon green fishing line. Taut
line. No give.

Yael won’t look up.

Sun exhales and lets loose His belly. It peeks out from under His shirt. _You
can keep thinking of me as Sun_. He’s relieved Yael is alone. _I’ve been
looking for a new name_. His old name felt stale. Dead by comparison. _Sun_ is
perfect.

 _I have a very important job for you, Yael, descendant of_  — He’d left His
notes at home —  _Yael. Enlist in my war against the wicked and blessed shall
you be above all people in the tent_.

Sun doesn’t mention that Yael isn’t His first, or even His second, choice.